docs(self-hosted): revamp self hosted related documentation (#1117)
getsentry/develop: src/docs/self-hosted/productionalizing.mdx

---
title: 'Self-Hosted Productionalizing'
---

This page provides a guide to help users secure their Sentry deployments and make the most out of Sentry. For further guide relating system security and performance, you might want to 

## Recommended system resource

Depending on your usage, required system resource to run Sentry may varies. Minimum system specification for running Sentry looks like this:

- 2 CPU cores
- 4 GB RAM

Having a machine that have lower system specification than that will fail the installation script.

Current recommended system specification for running Sentry is:

- 4 CPU cores
- 16 GB RAM
- 20 GB free disk storage space

> Depending on your load, you might want to increase your system specification to handle higher traffic load better. If increasing the disk storage space isn't possible, you can migrate your storage to use external storage such as AWS S3 or Google Cloud Storage (GCS). Decreasing your `SENTRY_RETENTION_DAYS` environment variable to lower numbers will save some storage space from being full, at the cost of having shorter data retention period.

Author: I really wanted to add how they can actually use Kubernetes for scaling out, but that's not officially supported. Is it okay to put it here as "community stuff"? 

A few stuff that I want to put here:
- https://github.com/sentry-kubernetes/charts
- https://github.com/kanadaj/sentry-operator

Reviewer: @chadwhitacre what is the company policy on doing this? I would refrain from putting specific links to repos that aren't `getsentry` repos if we can help it.

Reviewer 2: Yeah we need to draw the line somewhere and this seems like a good place to draw it @hubertdeng123.

## Enabling HTTPS

> We recommend TLS termination to be done on your own dedicated load balancer. Although you can set it on the `nginx.conf` file, it is not recommended as newer self-hosted release might alter some configuration on the file. Some example are available on [Using Dedicated Load Balancer](#using-dedicated-load-balancer) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend TLS termination to be done on your own dedicated load balancer. Although you can set it on the `nginx.conf` file, it is not recommended as newer self-hosted releases might alter some configurations on the file. Some examples are available on [Using Dedicated Load Balancer](#using-dedicated-load-balancer) section.
```

Reviewer: > Although you can set it on the `nginx.conf` file, it is not recommended as newer self-hosted release might alter some configuration on the file.

Users can also configure settings on the host nginx config, not the config that comes with the self-hosted setup. That's actually what we do, so not sure if this is completely accurate.

## Expose Only Ingest Endpoint Publicly

Certain self-hosted deployments requires the dashboard to be accessed only via internal network. But, they also need to provide public Sentry ingestion endpoint for client devices such as mobile and desktop apps. You can expose some of these endpoints publicly:

> 

Reviewer: Super helpful information here!

Once you have setup a load balancer or reverse proxy to your Sentry instance, you should modify the `system.url-prefix` in the `sentry/config.yml` file to match your new URL and protocol. You should also update the SSL/TLS section in the `sentry/sentry.conf.py` script, otherwise you may get CSRF-related errors when performing certain actions such as configuring integrations.

### NGINX

Put some NGINX config here... Give link to tune NGINX.

It is also recommended to fine tune your NGINX for some performance benefits. You can refer to these blog posts from NGINX:

- [Tuning NGINX for Performance - NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/blog/tuning-nginx/)
- [Performance Tuning - Tips & Tricks - NGINX](https://www.nginx.com/blog/performance-tuning-tips-tricks/)

### Caddy

[Caddy](https://caddyserver.com/) is one alternative similar to NGINX that automatically handles TLS certificate management via ACME. After you [install Caddy](https://caddyserver.com/docs/install), modify your Caddy configuration file that reside on `/etc/caddy/Caddyfile`.

```caddyfile

> sentry.yourcompany.com {

Author: Forgot to add how to expose only the ingest endpoints.

```haproxy
global
	# Your global configuration (may varies between version and Linux distributions)

defaults
	mode	http
    log     global
	option	httplog
	option	dontlognull
    option  forwardfor
    option  http-server-close
    option  http-keep-alive
    timeout connect 10s         # Connect timeout in 10s
    timeout client  30s         # Client timeout in 30s
    timeout server  30s         # Server timeout in 30s
	timeout http-keep-alive 2m  # HTTP keep alive in 2 minutes
    # Your remaining defaults configuration

frontend http_bind
	bind *:80 name http_port
	mode http

	acl sentry_domain hdr(host) -i sentry.yourcompany.com
    
    # HTTPS redirection
	http-request redirect scheme https code 301 if sentry_domain !{ ssl_fc }

    use_backend sentry

frontend https_bind
	bind *:443 ssl crt /etc/haproxy/certs/ name https_port
	mode http

> 	acl sentry_domain hdr(host) -i sentry.yourcompany.com

Author: Forgot to add how to expose only the ingest endpoints.
